Reorg security docs and add more WDAC content (#11416)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/security/app-control/how-wdac-works.md

- Individual file policy: `None`, `Audit` (allowed by policy), `Enforce` (not allowed by policy)

All versions of PowerShell (v5.1 - v7.x) support this WDAC policy detection.

### Latest WDAC policy enforcement detection

WDAC introduced new APIs in recent versions of Windows. Beginning with version 7.3, PowerShell uses
the new `WldpCanExecuteFile` API to decide how a file should be handled. Windows PowerShell 5.1
doesn't support this new API. The new API takes precedence over the legacy API for individual files.
However, PowerShell continues to use the legacy API to get the system wide policy configuration. If
the new API isn't available, PowerShell falls back to the old API behavior.

The new API provides the following information for each file:

- `WLDP_CAN_EXECUTE_ALLOWED`
- `WLDP_CAN_EXECUTE_BLOCKED`
- `WLDP_CAN_EXECUTE_REQUIRE_SANDBOX`

## PowerShell behavior under lockdown policy

PowerShell can run in both interactive and non-interactive modes.

- In interactive mode, PowerShell is a command-line application that takes users command-line input
  as commands or scripts to run. Results are displayed back to the user.

> - In non-interactive mode, PowerShell is used to load modules and run script files without user
>   input. Result data streams are either ignored or redirected to file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In non-interactive mode, PowerShell loads modules and runs script files without user
  input. Result data streams are either ignored or redirected to a file.
```

### Interactive mode running under policy enforcement

PowerShell runs commands in `ConstrainedLanguage` mode. This mode prevents interactive users from
running certain commands or executing arbitrary code. For more information about the restrictions in

> this mode, see the [PowerShell restrictions under lockdown policy][02] of this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this mode, see the [PowerShell restrictions under lockdown policy][02] section of this article.
```

### Noninteractive mode running under policy enforcement

When PowerShell runs a script or loads a module, it uses the WDAC API to get the policy enforcement
for the file.

> PowerShell version 7.3 or higher uses the `WldpCanExecuteFile` API if available. This API return one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PowerShell version 7.3 or higher uses the `WldpCanExecuteFile` API if available. This API returns one
```

  with a few restrictions.
- `WLDP_CAN_EXECUTE_BLOCKED`: The file isn't approved by policy. PowerShell throws an error when the
  file is run or loaded.
- `WLDP_CAN_EXECUTE_REQUIRE_SANDBOX`: The file isn't approved by the policy but it can still be run
  or loaded in `ConstrainedLanguage` mode.

In Windows PowerShell 5.1 or if `WldpCanExecuteFile` API isn't available, PowerShell's per file
behavior is:

- `None`: The file is run loaded in `FullLanguage` mode with a few restrictions.
- `Audit`: The file is run or loaded in `FullLanguage` mode with no restrictions. In PowerShell
  7.4 or higher, the policy logs restriction information to the Windows event logs.
- `Enforce`: The file is run or loaded in `ConstrainedLanguage` mode.

## PowerShell restrictions under lockdown policy

When PowerShell detects the system is under a WDAC lockdown policy, it applies restrictions
even if the script is trusted and running in `FullLanguage` mode. These restrictions prevent known
behaviors of PowerShell that could result in arbitrary code execution on a locked-down system. The
lockdown policy enforces the following restrictions:

- Module dot-sourcing with wildcard function export restriction

>   Any module that uses script dot-sourcing and also exports functions using wildcard names results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Any module that uses script dot-sourcing and exports functions using wildcard names results
```

  in an error. Blocking wildcard exports prevents script injection from a malicious user who can

>   plant an untrusted script that gets dot-sourced into a trusted module. The malicious script could
>   get access to private functions of the trusted module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  plant an untrusted script that gets dot-sourced into a trusted module. The malicious script could then gain access to the trusted module's private functions.
```

>   **Security recommendation:** Never use script dot-sourcing in a module and to always export module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Security recommendation:** Never use script dot-sourcing in a module and always export module
```

  functions with explicit names (no wildcard characters).

- Nested module with wildcard function export restriction

>   If a parent module exports functions using function name wildcard characters, then PowerShell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If a parent module exports functions using function name wildcard characters, PowerShell
```

>   removes any function name in a nested module from the function export list. Block wildcard exports
>   from nested modules prevents accidental exporting of dangerous nested functions through wildcards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  removes any function name in a nested module from the function export list. Blocking wildcard exports
  from nested modules prevents accidental exporting of dangerous nested functions through wildcard
```

  aren't allowed to run in `ConstrainedLanguage` mode.

  In this example, parameter binding type conversion is normally allowed, but fails when run in
  `ConstrainedLanguage` mode. The `ConnectionPort` type constructor isn't allowed:

  ```powershell
  PS> Create-ConnectionOnPort -Connection 22
  Create-ConnectionOnPort: Cannot bind parameter 'Connection'. Cannot convert the "22"
  value of type "System.Int32" to type "ConnectionPort".
  ```

- `Enter-PSHostProcess` cmdlet disallowed

  The `Enter-PSHostProcess` cmdlet is disabled and throws an error if used. This command is used for
  attach-and-debug sessions. It allows you to connect to any other PowerShell session on the local
  machine. The cmdlet is disabled to prevent information disclosure and arbitrary code execution.

## PowerShell restrictions under constrained language mode

Script or function that isn't approved by the WDAC policy is untrusted. When you run an untrusted
command, PowerShell either blocks the command from running (new behavior) or runs the command in
`ConstrainedLanguage` mode. The following restrictions apply to `ConstrainedLanguage` mode:

- `Add-Type` cmdlet disallowed

>   Blocking `Add-Type` prevents the execution arbitrary .NET code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Blocking `Add-Type` prevents the execution of arbitrary .NET code.
```

- Automatic type conversion restricted

  `ConstrainedLanguage` mode blocks automatic type conversion except for a small set of approved
  safe types to prevent potential code injection attacks.

- Implicit module function export restriction

  If a module doesn't explicitly export functions, PowerShell implicitly exports all defined module
  functions automatically as a convenience feature. In `ConstrainedLanguage` mode, implicit exports
  no longer occur when a module is loaded across trust boundaries. Blocking implicit exports
  prevents unintended exposure of dangerous module functions not meant for public use.

- Script files can't be imported as modules

  PowerShell allows you to import script files (`.ps1`) as a module. All defined functions become
  publicly accessible. `ConstrainedLanguage` mode blocks importation of script file to prevent
  unintended exposure of dangerous script functions.

- Setting variables `AllScope` restriction

  `ConstrainedLanguage` mode disables the ability to set `AllScope` on variables. Limiting the scope
  of variables prevents the variables from interfering with the session state of trusted commands.

- Type method invocation not allowed

>   `ConstrainedLanguage` mode doesn't allow method invocation on unapproved types. Blocking method on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `ConstrainedLanguage` mode doesn't allow method invocation on unapproved types. Blocking methods on
```
